so in the previous video we create we
ended up creating this circle function
and actually ran it and I'll just run it
again let's have a look at the output
and there is the output there and as I mentioned the circles are a lil bit vague you can see just
around the edges to the left and the
right their and just a little bit vague the line
the dots don't sort of lined up
correctly the reasons for that at the moment is
we were only plotting points for integer
values of x so we don't get many points plotted
and we can't use decimal values in the
step for our range
and I'm referring to the code here showing there
on line 16 which of course is our
circle function but what we can do is
multiply the range up so that more
values are used and scale each value back down again so doing this by a factor of a
hundred will give the same effect as a range
and increments by 0.01 and that should therefore
then fix up the circle so let's have a look at that
so what we wanna do is make a change to the code on line 17
in the way you can see for x in range g then
g + radius so let's just add the
multiplication step to that so.....
....but then what we
need to do is scaled back X as well so
put.......because again we're just using
the multiplied by a
hundred to give us a bigger range
effectively the same as we had a range
that increments 0.01 so we then have to divide it back by a
hundred to take it back to the original
point that it was before so they will
plot if we now run this again
...and their you can see it's now a lot better it's actually plotting a hundred times as many points
as it was previously and as a result
looking at that it's a lot better but
did you notice that it also took
significantly longer so I'll just run it again
so I ran it and try to tab over and I can't still tab over because it is still generating it and their it is in the screen
there now their you go did you see it pop ups
it took a quite a deal more time to actually
create that and again the reason is why we are
plotting a hundred times as many points
as we did previously so its doing a
hundred times more calculations but the
end result is the circle is a much more
well defined with modifications that
are actually made now if you're not sure
what's going on with scaling the range
what we can do is print the value of x so
let's go ahead and do that just so we
can sort of see what is going on so if
we add a print their...and run that that showing us
a representation of the values that are
being plotted you can see their is quiet a
a few their and if I tab over now and see if its finished we got our parabola their on the screen you can see everything
at once so for the first circle we
ended up with the range running from 100 to 200 in
steps of 0.01 you can see the 0.01 their for each one of course we
did that by scaling up the start and end
values of the range and then scaling x back down again before actually using it so
that it would actually plot in the
right position so although the range
function can only use integer values it can still
be used to produce a range of decimals by
and I'll be showing how to do that now by
multiplying it by a hundred now we are
going to be looking at another way to do
the same thing using a generator later
in the course which can result in much
more readable code now the disadvantage
with this is that performances is
suffered but the result is much nicer
and by having the circle drawing code in
a function you saw that the change has
applied to all circles that were drawn so basically putting the code
in one place enabled us to make the
change to every single circle
that was actually drawn but with that said
in fact the canvas widget has a create
oval method that can be used to draw
circles and is actually much faster than
the method data we've come up with so the
create oval method needs the coordinates
of the top left and bottom right of a
bounding rectangle but we're working with
the radius and coordinates of the center we can still use our circle method we just
change it so that it calculates the
coordinates that the create oval method
needs so lets go ahead and do that so lets close it down and I'm making it a lot easier so comment out this code in our circle
function and the code at the top so all we
need to do is put.....and then
we need to calculate the coordinates for
the create oval method it needs again what it needs is
the coordinates of the top left and bottom
right of a bounding rectangle then it is
gonna draw it over within those parameters so put....
.......
.....
and that's all we need to do and I just need to add a line
there to keep that happy 2
lines in between each function so now if we run
that...and bingo we already got our circles and I have made a
mistake their what I've done is I've actually
multiplied the radius instead of adding
it so that should have been G Plus right radius.....
...and the other two should be fine so again the top left of the first
2 parameters are the bottom right of the last 2 so if I run it again we should get basically results similar to what
we had before you can see that was significantly faster and
it's reduced a very good effect and the
advantage with that is we are using
optimized code those built in part of
Python so always a good idea where possible
if you could find some code that has been already written to
use that rather than reinventing the
wheel that we did initially with our
function circle function on line 60 now
I use the term method instead of function
when referring to the create_oval method and
because a canvas is actually class and
class functions are called methods that's
actually the right terminology to use so
in this case the create_oval is a method and again as
classes methods the correct term
instead of functions but don't worry too
much about that because we'll be looking
at classes and object-oriented
programming in the next section and
you'll understand why they're called
that and once we go through that it will make a lot more sense but it's probably a good idea
to start using the correct terminology
as you can see their isn't really a great
deal of difference between functions and
class methods when it comes down to
actually using them
okay so it's time for a mini challenge
and it is very much a mini challenge
and I'm just going to type it just above the circle
method because it's ultimately where we
are going to be using it we will modify the
circle function so that it allows
the color of the circle to be specified
and defaults to red color is not given and just a
note here you may want to review the previous lecture about named parameters and default values so that's basically it
modify the circle functions so that it allows
the color of the circle to be specified
it defaults to red if the color is not given
now you may want to review the previous
lectures about named parameters and default values to get it working so it's now time to pause the
video go away and make the change to the
circle function and when you made your change come back and
you can compare the code that we've
actually about to put in ours
so we'll see you when you get back pause the video now ok so
hopefully you figure it out all we really need
to do is change make the change now on line 19 actually I'll put 2 spaces their keep it happy
and we need to add an extra parameter
and we just put....so by putting the
equals red that's defaulting that as a parameter
if one is passed and of course we
need to change the code here where it is
hard coded for red and make that color so once we do that that should work that should be all we need to do
and we can test this by the
first four lets changed those so put.....
...and notice we are not getting any errors with
these other circle calls on line 63 through 67
because we are not specifying a parameter its going to default to red and it doesn't come up with an error
but the first four circle should be in green yellow black and blue so
lets try running that and you can see it's working nicely so we got a blue yellow black and green circle
so that's actually it that's the end of the
lecture and I'll see you in the next
lecture where are we are going to take a
little bit of a different tack and we are going to
start looking at creating a blackjack
card game so we'll see you in the next
video